." Hi! This manual (manpage) was written by dd86k.
." Please read man-pages(7) and groff_man(7) about the manual page format.
." https://www.man7.org/linux/man-pages/man7/groff_man.7.html

.TH vvd 1 "July 2020" dd86k "User Manual"
.SH NAME
.B vvd
- Universal virtual disk management tool

.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY vvd
{
.IR info
|
.IR map
|
.IR new
|
.IR compact
}
.IR FILE
.OP OPTIONS
.YS

.SY vvd
{
.IR new
}
.IR FILE
.IR SIZE
.OP OPTIONS
.YS

.SY vvd
{
.IR --help
|
.IR --version
|
.IR --license
}
.YS

.SH DESCRIPTION

vvd aims to be a simple universal virtual disk management tool.

.SH OPERATIONS

One of these operations must be specified to operate. All virtual disk
file referred as "VDISK". All options with double dashes, as well as default
arguments (file paths, sizes) can be specified in any order after OPERATION.

.SS info
Show VDISK information.

Get VDISK information such as VDISK headers (type, virtual size, etc.), MBR,
GPT, and FS, if available. Supports option
.OP --raw

.SS map
Show allocation map for VDISK.

If the VDISK type is not dynamic, the operation
is aborted.

.SS new
Create new VDISK.

Create a new VDISK with a specified SIZE. The file extension is detected automatically.
Dynamic disks are created by default. SIZE accepted suffixes are 'K', 'M, 'G', and 'T'.

.B WARNING: THIS WILL OVERWRITE ANYTHING GIVEN IN PATH!

For example:

.EX
vvd new example.vdi 10G --create-fixed
.EE

Will create a VDI fixed disk with a capacity of 10 GiB.

.SS compact
Compact VDISK

This will attempt to compact the VDISK. If the VDISK is not of type dynamic,
the operation is canceled.

.SH OPTIONS

.SS --raw
Open as raw.

Open file, or device, as raw. This bypasses all format and header verification.

.SS --create-raw
Create as raw.

Create file as raw. Only used in the
.IR new
operation, pre-allocates to SIZE.

.SS --create-dyn
Used to specify a dynamic-size virtual disk at creation.

.SS --create-fixed
Used to specify a fixed-size virtual disk at creation.

.SH EXAMPLES

.SS Get VDISK information

.EX
$ vvd info windows10.vhd
.EE

.SS Get disk information

Requires elevated privileges.

.EX
$ vvd info --raw /dev/sda
> vvd info \\\\.\\PhysicalDrive0 --raw
.EE

.SS Create fixed VDISK

.EX
$ vvd new arch.vdi 4G --create-fixed
.EE

.SH WARNINGS

.B This tool is way too young to be called stable and may explode violently.

This tool may likely change often during its growth.

.SH AUTHOR
Program and man-gage written by dd86k
.MT dd@dax.moe
.ME

.UR https://git.dd86k.space/dd86k/vvd
Homepage:
.UE

.UR https://github.com/dd86k/vvd
Mirror:
.UE
